# Autoencoder Pattern Visualiser
The objective of this research is to visualize the patterns learnt by autoencoders. Autoencoders consist of three layers - the encoder, the hidden layer and the decoder. In this project, the bottleneck layer, i.e., the hidden layer of the autoencoder -  is the main focus of interest. Hidden layers are what allow the networks to work through complicated relationships and achieve accurate results. This layer allows for the network to break down the functions to smaller parts and distribute it among the nodes for efficient working of the network. Each of the hidden layers is designed to give its own functional output, which it then passes on to the next layer. It is interesting to note that this layer learns from the data and creates patterns or structures while trying to form the output. These patterns are varied and unique depending on the use of the autoencoder. 

Our aim is to study these patterns and visualize the learning of the autoencoder, with the goal of making our machine learning model transparent. We plan on executing this vision with the use of one dimensional ECG signals. An electrocardiogram is basically used to check the proper functioning of the heart by measuring its electrical activity. An electrical impulse travels through the heart with each  beat and this is recorded by the ECG. Any fluctuations or anomalies in the signals would help to identify heart conditions in the patient. We will be performing this anomaly detection with the use of an autoencoder. We will then identify the points of activation in the model, to understand its working. 
